Neko: The Clojure/Android Toolkit
=================================
Daniel Solano_Gómez

Neko is a toolkit designed to make Android development using Clojure easier and
more fun.  It accomplishes this by making adding Clojure support to your
Android project easy and providing functional wrappers and alternatives to
Android’s Java API.

Features
--------

WARNING: Note that the libraries are under heavy development.  APIs are subject
to change.  In particular, `neko.threading` will be changed.

The toolkit comes as two components:

. Simplified build support for Clojure using Android’s Ant-based build system,
  and

. The following Clojure libraries:

  * `neko.compilation` helps set up dynamic compilation.

  * `neko.context` helps retrieve resources from the application’s context.

  * `neko.listeners` contains namespaces that take the tedium to adding
    callback code to various widgets.

  * `neko.log` interns functions that make logging from your code clean and
    simple.

  * `neko.threading` will contain utilities to manage asynchronous tasks and
    working with UI threads.


=== Requirements ===

Using Neko requires the following:

Clojure::

  Stock Clojure version 1.2 will work on Android 2.2 (Froyo) and newer.
  Clojure 1.3 currently only works with Android 2.3 (Gingerbread) and newer.
+
Special versions of Clojure for Android development are available from two
different branches in https://github.com/sattvik/clojure[this repository on
GitHub].  These versions support dynamic compilation on an Android device.
The https://github.com/sattvik/clojure/tree/android[`android`] branch contains
the latest development from both core Clojure and Android-specific work.
However, it only supports Android 2.3 and up.  The
https://github.com/sattvik/clojure/tree/android-1.2.x[`android-1.2.x`] branch
is based off of Clojure 1.2.1 and supports Android versions since Android 2.1
(Eclair).

Android SDK Tools::
  Neko has been developed with the latest revision of the Android SDK tools,
  and is compatible with r14 and up of the Android SDK.
+
WARNING: Revision 14 of the Android SDK introduced some major changes in the
Ant build system.  Neko has been updated to use the new build system.  You will
probably need to change your project if you have been using an older version of
Neko/SDK.  For more detailed information, check the
http://tools.android.com/recent/buildchangesinrevision14[Android Tools Project
Site].


Android Platform SDK 7 (2.1/Eclair) or newer::
  In order to maintain backwards-compatibility, Neko does not support any APIs
  for newer versions of the platform.


Use
---

The following instructions should help you to add Clojure support to your
project’s build and allow you to use the libraries within your application.

=== Build support ===

To use Neko’s build support for Clojure, you will need to make two
modifications to your project’s `build.xml` file.

. You must add a line to similar to the following *before the line with
  `<import file="${sdk.dir}/tools/ant/build.xml" />`*.
+
----
<import file="/path/to/neko/build-support/clojure.xml"/>
----
+
The important thing is that the value of the `file` attribute should resolve
to the `clojure.xml` in the `build-support` directory of this
repository.  It may be either a relative or absolute path.

. You must find the line that reads `<!-- version-tag: 1 -->` and change the
  `1` to `custom`.  If you do not do this, Android may overwrite your changes.

For most projects, that is all you have to do.  So long as your Clojure source
files are in `src/clojure` and you have placed a Clojure JAR file in
`libs`, Ant will now automatically find and compile all of your Clojure code.


==== Reflection warnings ====

To enable reflection warnings during compilation, simply set the
`clojure.warn.reflection` property to `true`.


==== `clojure.properties` ====

You can place a `clojure.properties` file in the same directory as the
`clojure.xml` file.  This file will be sourced and used in any project in which
you have enabled Clojure support.

==== Test and library projects ====

If your project is a test or library project, you should not place a copy of
the Clojure library in the `libs` directory.  If you do this, when building an
application that uses your library or when building your test project, the `dx`
tool will fail due to multiple inclusions of the same Clojure classes.

In these circumstances, you should either set a `clojure.jar` property in your
project’s `build.properties` file or in the `clojure.properties` file as
described in the previous section.

Also, if you are developing an Android library project, you should add the
following line to your `build.properties` file:

----
source.dir=src/java
----

This will ensure that your Clojure sources are not inadvertently included in
any applications that use your library.

=== Libraries ===

Neko is packaged as an Android library project.  This makes it easy to add the
libraries to your application if you are using Android’s build system.
Essentially, all you have to do is add a line to your project’s
`build.properties` similar to the following:

----
android.library.reference.1=/path/to/neko
----

Where the path is either absolute or relative and resolves to the base
directory for Neko.  To learn more about Android library projects, you can read
the SDK documentation for referencing a library project in
http://developer.android.com/guide/developing/projects/projects-eclipse.html#ReferencingLibraryProject[Eclipse]
or
http://developer.android.com/guide/developing/projects/projects-cmdline.html#ReferencingLibraryProject[from
the command line].



Legal information
-----------------

Copyright © 2011 Sattvik Software & Technology Resources, Ltd. Co. +
All rights reserved.

=== Eclipse Public License - v 1.0 ===

THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS ECLIPSE PUBLIC
LICENSE (“AGREEMENT”). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE
PROGRAM CONSTITUTES RECIPIENT’S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT.

==== 1. DEFINITIONS ====

“Contribution” means:

a. in the case of the initial Contributor, the initial code and documentation
   distributed under this Agreement, and

b. in the case of each subsequent Contributor:

   i)  changes to the Program, and

   ii) additions to the Program;
+
where such changes and/or additions to the Program originate from and are
distributed by that particular Contributor. A Contribution ‘originates’ from a
Contributor if it was added to the Program by such Contributor itself or anyone
acting on such Contributor’s behalf.  Contributions do not include additions to
the Program which: (i) are separate modules of software distributed in
conjunction with the Program under their own license agreement, and (ii) are
not derivative works of the Program.

“Contributor” means any person or entity that distributes the Program.

“Licensed Patents” mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor which are
necessarily infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution alone or when
combined with the Program.

“Program” means the Contributions distributed in accordance with this
Agreement.

“Recipient” means anyone who receives the Program under this Agreement,
including all Contributors.

==== 2. GRANT OF RIGHTS ====

a. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants
   Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright license to
   reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform,
   distribute and sublicense the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, and
   such derivative works, in source code and object code form.p>

b. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants
   Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent license under
   Licensed Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell, import and otherwise
   transfer the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, in source code and
   object code form. This patent license shall apply to the combination of the
   Contribution and the Program if, at the time the Contribution is added by
   the Contributor, such addition of the Contribution causes such combination
   to be covered by the Licensed Patents. The patent license shall not apply to
   any other combinations which include the Contribution. No hardware per se is
   licensed hereunder.

c. Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the licenses to
   its Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are provided by any
   Contributor that the Program does not infringe the patent or other
   intellectual property rights of any other entity. Each Contributor disclaims
   any liability to Recipient for claims brought by any other entity based on
   infringement of intellectual property rights or otherwise. As a condition to
   exercising the rights and licenses granted hereunder, each Recipient hereby
   assumes sole responsibility to secure any other intellectual property rights
   needed, if any. For example, if a third party patent license is required to
   allow Recipient to distribute the Program, it is Recipient’s responsibility
   to acquire that license before distributing the Program.

d. Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient
   copyright rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright license
   set forth in this Agreement.

==== 3. REQUIREMENTS ====

A Contributor may choose to distribute the Program in object code form under
its own license agreement, provided that:

a. it complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and

b. its license agreement:

   i) effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties and
   conditions, express and implied, including warranties or conditions of title
   and non-infringement, and implied warranties or conditions of
   merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose;

   ii) effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability for
   damages, including direct, indirect, special, incidental and consequential
   damages, such as lost profits;

   iii) states that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are offered
   by that Contributor alone and not by any other party; and

   iv) states that source code for the Program is available from such
   Contributor, and informs licensees how to obtain it in a reasonable manner
   on or through a medium customarily used for software exchange.

When the Program is made available in source code form:

a. it must be made available under this Agreement; and

b. a copy of this Agreement must be included with each copy of the Program.

Contributors may not remove or alter any copyright notices contained within the
Program.

Each Contributor must identify itself as the originator of its Contribution, if
any, in a manner that reasonably allows subsequent Recipients to identify the
originator of the Contribution.

==== 4. COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION ====

Commercial distributors of software may accept certain responsibilities with
respect to end users, business partners and the like. While this license is
intended to facilitate the commercial use of the Program, the Contributor who
includes the Program in a commercial product offering should do so in a manner
which does not create potential liability for other Contributors. Therefore, if
a Contributor includes the Program in a commercial product offering, such
Contributor (“Commercial Contributor”) hereby agrees to defend and indemnify
every other Contributor (“Indemnified Contributor”) against any losses, damages
and costs (collectively “Losses”) arising from claims, lawsuits and other legal
actions brought by a third party against the Indemnified Contributor to the
extent caused by the acts or omissions of such Commercial Contributor in
connection with its distribution of the Program in a commercial product
offering. The obligations in this section do not apply to any claims or Losses
relating to any actual or alleged intellectual property infringement. In order
to qualify, an Indemnified Contributor must: a) promptly notify the Commercial
Contributor in writing of such claim, and b) allow the Commercial Contributor
to control, and cooperate with the Commercial Contributor in, the defense and
any related settlement negotiations. The Indemnified Contributor may
participate in any such claim at its own expense.

For example, a Contributor might include the Program in a commercial product
offering, Product X. That Contributor is then a Commercial Contributor. If that
Commercial Contributor then makes performance claims, or offers warranties
related to Product X, those performance claims and warranties are such
Commercial Contributor’s responsibility alone. Under this section, the
Commercial Contributor would have to defend claims against the other
Contributors related to those performance claims and warranties, and if a court
requires any other Contributor to pay any damages as a result, the Commercial
Contributor must pay those damages.

==== 5. NO WARRANTY ====

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS PROVIDED ON AN
“AS IS” BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE,
NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each
Recipient is solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using
and distributing the Program and assumes all risks associated with its exercise
of rights under this Agreement , including but not limited to the risks and
costs of program errors, compliance with applicable laws, damage to or loss of
data, programs or equipment, and unavailability or interruption of operations.

==== 6. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY ====

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR ANY
CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST
PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY
WAY OUT OF THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS
GRANTED HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

==== 7. GENERAL ====

If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under applicable
law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of the
terms of this Agreement, and without further action by the parties hereto, such
provision shall be reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make such
provision valid and enforceable.

If Recipient institutes patent litigation against any entity (including a
cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Program itself
(excluding combinations of the Program with other software or hardware)
infringes such Recipient’s patent(s), then such Recipient’s rights granted
under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.

All Recipient’s rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it fails to
comply with any of the material terms or conditions of this Agreement and does
not cure such failure in a reasonable period of time after becoming aware of
such noncompliance. If all Recipient’s rights under this Agreement terminate,
Recipient agrees to cease use and distribution of the Program as soon as
reasonably practicable. However, Recipient’s obligations under this Agreement
and any licenses granted by Recipient relating to the Program shall continue
and survive.

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute copies of this Agreement, but in
order to avoid inconsistency the Agreement is copyrighted and may only be
modified in the following manner. The Agreement Steward reserves the right to
publish new versions (including revisions) of this Agreement from time to time.
No one other than the Agreement Steward has the right to modify this Agreement.
The Eclipse Foundation is the initial Agreement Steward. The Eclipse Foundation
may assign the responsibility to serve as the Agreement Steward to a suitable
separate entity. Each new version of the Agreement will be given a
distinguishing version number. The Program (including Contributions) may always
be distributed subject to the version of the Agreement under which it was
received. In addition, after a new version of the Agreement is published,
Contributor may elect to distribute the Program (including its Contributions)
under the new version. Except as expressly stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b)
above, Recipient receives no rights or licenses to the intellectual property of
any Contributor under this Agreement, whether expressly, by implication,
estoppel or otherwise. All rights in the Program not expressly granted under
this Agreement are reserved.

This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New York and the
intellectual property laws of the United States of America. No party to this
Agreement will bring a legal action under this Agreement more than one year
after the cause of action arose. Each party waives its rights to a jury trial
in any resulting litigation.

// vim:set spell ft=asciidoc:
